Shinagawa

Edogawa Nerima Taitō

Itabashi Ōta Toshima

Katsushika Setagaya

Three wards of Tokyo make up the central part of the city. They are Chiyoda, Chūō and Minato.[20]

Landmarks

Tokyo has many sight-seeing spots, but very few of them are old. There are very few buildings in Tokyo that are more than 50 years old. Popular places for visitors range from Tokyo Tower in the center of the city to Mount Takao out in the western countryside. Tokyo Skytree is a new tower and is the tallest in Japan. Traditional religious sights such as Meiji Shrine and Sensō-ji attract many tourists. The Imperial Palace can be seen in the middle of the city, but is not open to the public.

Transportation

Transportation

Tokyo Sky Tree and East Tower in February 2012

Tokyo is the cultural, business, and political center of the country. It is also

the center of many transport systems. There are many air, rail, sea, and road links in and out of the city. Local subway and bus systems serve every part of the city.

Two commercial airports serve Tokyo. Haneda Airport is in the city limits next to Tokyo Bay. This airport is mostly for domestic travel. Most international flights to and from Tokyo go through Narita Airport in Chiba Prefecture(千葉県).

Several Shinkansen super-express railway lines begin at Tokyo Station, including the Tōkaidō Shinkansen going west, and the Tōhoku Shinkansen going northeast. Tokyo Metro is the city's major subway system.

Tokyo has a busy international and domestic port, but more traffic goes through the nearby port of Yokohama. There are domestic ferries to the islands of Tokyo, but also to other parts of the country such as Hokkaido.

Many highways meet in Tokyo, including: the Chūō, Kan-Etsu, Tōhoku, and Tōmei Expressways. All highway distances in Japan start from zero at a marker at Nihonbashi, Tokyo.

Related pages

F.C. Tokyo

Tokyo Metropolis

Tokyo Verdy

2020 Summer Olympics

Universities in Tokyo

National Universities

Hitotsubashi University

Tokyo Medical and Dental University

University of Tokyo