Landmarks

Alexanderplatz

Show at the Friedrichstadt-Palast

Berliner Dom (Berlin's cathedral)

Berlin Hauptbahnhof (Main Railway station)

Brandenburg Gate

East Side Gallery (Former Berlin Wall)

Fernsehturm (TV tower - the highest building in Germany)

Potsdamer Platz

Reichstag building (home of the Bundestag)

Rotes Rathaus (ofﬁce of the Governing Mayor)

Siegessäule (Statue of Victory)

Tiergarten (Central Park)

Unter den Linden (Main boulevard)

Bundestag

Bundestag

Brandenburg Gate

The Theatre of the West

Bellevue Palace

Victory column

Alte Nationalgalerie

Berlin Philharmonic

Oberbaumbriicke

Berliner Dom (Berlin cathedral)

Cuisine

The Berlin cuisine and culinary offerings vary greatly. 23 restaurants in Berlin have been awarded one or more Michelin stars in 2021, which ranks the city at the top for the number of restaurants in Germany.[19]

Many local foods originated from north German culinary traditions and include rustic and hearty dishes with pork, goose, fish, peas, beans, cucumbers, or potatoes. Typical Berliner fare include popular street food like the Currywurst Buletten (meat balls) and the Berliner doughnut, known in Berlin as Pfannkuchen.[20][21] German bakeries offering a variety of breads and pastries are widespread. One of Europe's largest delicatessen markets is found at the department store KaDeWe. Among the world's largest chocolate stores is Fassbender & Rausch.[22]

Berlin is also home to a diverse gastronomy scene reflecting the immigrant history of the city. Immigrants brought their culinary traditions to the city, such as the varied fast-food version of the döner kebab. Asian cuisine like Chinese, Vietnamese, Thai, Indian, Korean, and Japanese restaurants, as well as Spanish tapas bars, Italian, and Greek cuisine, can be found in many parts of the city.

Berliner Pfannkuchen

Döner Kebab

KaDeWe

Institutions

Berlin is home to three opera houses: the Deutsche Oper, the Staatsoper Unter den Linden and the Komische Oper.[23]

Economy

In 2018, the GDP of Berlin totaled €147 billion.[1] The city is the largest metropolitan economy in Germany and the third largest in the European Union. Berlin's economy is dominated by the service sector, with around 85% of all companies doing business in services. In 2019, the total labor force in Berlin was about two million.

Important economic sectors in Berlin include life sciences, transportation, information and communication technologies, media and music, advertising and design, biotechnology, environmental services, construction, e-commerce, retail, hotel business, and medical engineering.[25]

Berlin is recognized for its creative industries and startups.[24]

Research and development are important for the city.[26] Berlin is part of the Eurozone.